>> Steve Kinney: And at this point, we're
now talking about the functions that we
want to let the client be able to call,
right?
And this is a very simple crud app.
So l they won't be too compelling,
but the idea is, like,
you're instead of thinking about routes
and the requests and the response,
you're thinking more in
terms of functions, right?
You're thinking in terms of parameters and
return values instead.
So this becomes effectively
an object with methods, right?
Where we might have get task,
which is a public procedure.
I don't make the names.
I would have called it something cooler.
And we'll have,
either queries and mutations, but
first we talk about what does this
function take and it shouldn't be
too much of a surprise to us that it's
validated with a Zod schema, right?
So we could say something
>> Steve Kinney: This case,
the test lists Schema, so
what the test query schema?
Did I make that a type before,
when I was live coding, yelling a lot,
>> Steve Kinney: I didn't make one for
the query schema, but
we can do that right now.
>> Steve Kinney: That was two
words put together, nope.
Export test, list, query schema.
>> Steve Kinney: Actually,
I just want this.
>> Steve Kinney: That's that
query list that we had before.
And so that's now exported.
So we can go back in here
>> Steve Kinney: And pull in that schema.
I could have also written
one by hand in here.
But the idea is, this is being pulled
in from that shared repo, right?
So this is a known shared thing that can
be validated all over the place, but
we will get that validation for
free in a way that you'll see momentarily.
And then what is
the process of doing this?
Which is going to be very similar
to what I actually have in
my existing rest endpoint pieces.
Let me make sure all my
braces are in place.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool.
And so in this point,
I'm just gonna basically,
so we can go ahead and say
>> Steve Kinney: So, this
is access to the database you can see that
it is correctly typed as the database.
We can go and
steal some code that we already have here.
So for instance,
>> Steve Kinney: We
can get all of our tasks,
so on and so forth.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll have that
completed tasks.
And again,
you can pull this out into its own file.
We're gonna use Prisma in a second
to generate even the types for
everything in our database.
But right now, we'll go ahead and
we'll grab all the tasks and return them.
So this is, again, going to be very
similar to what I have in here as well.
This is Rose, we might get rid
of that any, so we're gonna say
>> Steve Kinney: Cool.
So now we've got a router where we've
said, what do you expect it and
taken, right?
Kind of not just somewhere from
our open API schema, right?
And some of this boilerplate
goes away pretty quickly.
>> Speaker 2: Would it be better to
call the server functions from the trpc
TypeScript file,
just to be sure the same code is executed,
instead of keeping two different
versions of the functionality.
>> Steve Kinney: I think
I know what they mean,
which is here we're calling
SQL statements twice.
Yeah.
We would probably pull out a get all tasks
into a method that called that we'd call
them both the rest endpoints and the TRPC.
For instance, let's actually,
let's take that feedback.
Let's take it to heart, right?
So, for instance, one thing we
probably should have done a little
bit earlier is this didn't
matter in our server,
because it's one set of crud end points,
right?
And so we have all these database queries.
And then we are, once again parsing
the responses all the time,
some of the time,
right where we got to it.
But theoretically, in a larger code base,
I don't in every route want to write
a SQL query and then parse it to make
sure it is where I think it should be.
And we're seeing that that
was the feedback right now,
of like you're writing the same
thing twice, 100%, right?
So what I meant to do or ldecided not to
do at the time and thought there would
be no consequences for my actions was
create some kind of database client.
So you could do something like class,
task client.
And again, if this is a state of your code
base where you're doing these SQL queries,
it's not dissimilar from an SDK or
something along those lines.
Where we'll say something like,
we'll have a private database
which is of the type database.
I think that's the one I want.
Constructor that takes the database.
>> Steve Kinney: Cool, and then what you
should be able to do is do something like,
get all tasks.
>> Steve Kinney: This is similar to
what I have in that get right now.
And so if you find yourself doing
zod parse all over the place,
what you might consider doing is
you can make a method like this.
And again, we can make one for create
task, update task, all the things that we
ought to be able to do and
I will probably have to at some point.
And then I will undo it later with Prisma.
It will be great, but
we have this get all tasks, then what
we could do theoretically is like,
>> Steve Kinney: In
our server, like say,
hey, I want to have a
>> Steve Kinney: And now,
instead of calling all
the SQL queries by hand,
I can do something like,
>> Steve Kinney: And so now I can call
this and I will get, as you can see,
it's correctly typed, so on and
so forth as we go through.
And I can now use this on both
the trpc server and my Rest server.
And again, it's the same thing we kinda
did with abstracting this stuff away.
We could do it by hand and
add all the things and then use them.
So now, anytime we call client,
dot get all tasks.
We know they're pars by odd, we know
they'll be good, so on and so forth.
Could have done it earlier,
chose not to regret choices.
So now here we can also do in fact,
I'm gonna pay down some
of my sins from earlier,
which is we can also hear it go.
Const, client
>> Steve Kinney: Is
new TaskClient,
>> Steve Kinney: But
anything you pass down in
here should work as well.
>> Steve Kinney: I have
the wrong type in here.
We could fix that real quick, which is,
that's probably the one I like.
I think the one I like is SQL light, and
the one I don't like is SQLite three,
which is the inverse of what anyone
would think would ever be, cool.
So now everything's like
direct database access and
my cool little Zod abstraction.
Should I give them direct database access?
No, the chat said no.
Person that chat who is right said no, so
now we'll grab the,
>> Steve Kinney: And now we can say,
>> Steve Kinney: We are cool actually with
these being under find as well.
So now with all of that extra hoopla,
when we pull in this to the client,
they'll get this client that will
currently have one method, right?
One method will take arguments
that are matched by this schema.
And effectively call this
function server side and
then give me back all of
the data that almost as if I
was calling server code from the client,
right?
And it will be transmitted.
And again, it will kind of take
multiple routes of getting there,
a little bit you can have changes.
You can say, hey, anytime something
happens, send a WebSocket request,
and you kind of get that like Firebase,
auto updating as well.
But effectively, what you do with
the TRPC router is you start to define
these public procedures
are basically functions.
Now the client will have a get
tasks method that you can call.
You can also have a create task method,
yeah, and we'll add some more in a second.
But you'll add more and
more of these, right?
And then, effectively, calling the server
code from the client is like
calling it as if you had one app.
But you will get all the type
safety because again,
if we look at this, it knows that
it's got access to the test client.
It knows what the input ought to be,
it knows what the output is going to be,
so on and so forth.
So, everything is typed and
the types themselves are then
available in both places.